## Project

__Learning to suppress likely distractor locations in visual search is driven by the local distractor frequency__

## Team members

* Fredrik Allenmark<sup>1</sup>
* Bei Zhang<sup>1,2</sup>
* Zhuanghua Shi<sup>1</sup>
* Hermann J. Müller<sup>1</sup>

1. Department of Psychology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany
2. Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Fudan University, Shanghai, China

## Abstract

Salient but task-irrelevant distractors interfere less with visual search when they appear in a display region where distractors have appeared more frequently in the past (‘distractor-location probability cueing’). This effect could reflect the (re-)distribution of a global, limited attentional ‘inhibition resource’. Accordingly, changing the frequency of distractor appearance in one display region should also affect the magnitude of interference generated by distractors in a different region. Alternatively, distractor-location learning may reflect a local response (e.g., ‘habituation’) to distractors occurring at a particular location. In this case, the local distractor frequency in one display region should not affect distractor interference in a different region. To decide between these alternatives, we conducted three experiments in which participants searched for an orientation-defined target while ignoring a more salient orientation distractor that occurred more often in one vs. another display region. Experiment 1 varied the ratio of distractors appearing in the frequent vs. rare regions (60/40–90/10), with a fixed global distractor frequency. The results revealed the cueing effect to increase with increasing probability ratio. In Experiments 2 and 3, one (‘test’) region was assigned the same local distractor frequency as in one of the conditions of Experiment 1, but a different frequency in the other region – dissociating local from global distractor frequency. Together, the three experiments showed that distractor interference in the test region was not significantly influenced by the frequency in the other region, consistent with purely local learning. We discuss the implications for theories of statistical distractor-location learning.

## Acknowledgements

This study was supported by German Science Foundation (DFG) research grants MU773/16-2, awarded to HJM and ZS, and MU773/14-2, awarded to HJM.

## Contents

